DOCSP-41132: Read Data from MongoDB (#3)
mongodb/docs-kotlin-sync: source/read.txt

   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :description: Learn how to use {+driver-short+} to read data from MongoDB.
   :keywords: usage examples, query, find, code example

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:
   :maxdepth: 1

   /read/specify-a-query
   /read/retrieve
   /read/project
   /read/specify-documents-to-return
   /read/count
   /read/distinct
   /read/cursors
   /read/change-streams

Overview
--------

On this page, you can see copyable code examples that show common
methods you can use to retrieve documents with the {+driver-short+}.

.. tip::

  To learn more about any of the methods shown on this page, see the link
  provided in each section.

To use an example from this page, copy the code example into the
:ref:`sample application <kotlin-sync-read-sample>` or your own application.
Be sure to replace all placeholders in the code examples, such as ``<connection string URI>``, with
the relevant values for your MongoDB deployment.

.. _kotlin-sync-read-sample:

.. include:: /includes/usage-examples/sample-app-intro.rst

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/sample-app.kt
    :language: kotlin
    :copyable:
    :linenos:
    :emphasize-lines: 19-21

Find Documents

> --------------

Author: Note: Unlike most other driver, the Kotlin Sync driver doesn't have a strict `findOne()` method.

> .. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/retrieve-code-examples.kt

Reviewer: S: for all of the code examples, we can include one line of introductory text.

   :start-after: start-find
   :end-before: end-find
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:

> To learn more about the ``find()`` method, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-retrieve-find` guide.

Author: Note: None of these guide links work, will be built out and tested when the other Read pages are created.

Reviewer: You can comment it out with a TODO in the meantime

Count Documents in a Collection
-------------------------------

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/retrieve-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-count-all
   :end-before: end-count-all
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:

To learn more about the ``count_documents()`` method, see the
:ref:`kotlin-sync-accurate-count` guide.

Count Documents Returned from a Query
-------------------------------------

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/retrieve-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-count-query
   :end-before: end-count-query
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:

To learn more about the ``countDocuments()`` method, see the
:ref:`kotlin-sync-accurate-count` guide.

Estimated Document Count
------------------------

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/retrieve-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-estimated-count
   :end-before: end-estimated-count
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:

To learn more about the ``estimatedDocumentCount()`` method, see the
:ref:`kotlin-sync-estimated-count` guide.

> 

Reviewer: S: remove extra lines

Author: Good catch!

..    :titlesonly:
..    :maxdepth: 1

   .. /read/specify-a-query
   .. /read/retrieve
   .. /read/project
   .. /read/specify-documents-to-return
   .. /read/count
   .. /read/distinct
   .. /read/cursors
   .. /read/change-streams

Overview
--------

On this page, you can see copyable code examples that show common
methods you can use to retrieve documents by using the {+driver-short+}.

.. tip::

  To learn more about any of the methods shown on this page, see the link
  to a relevant guide provided in each section.

To use an example from this page, copy the code example into the
:ref:`sample application <kotlin-sync-read-sample>` or your own application.
Be sure to replace all placeholders in the code examples, such as ``<connection string URI>``, with
the relevant values for your MongoDB deployment.

.. _kotlin-sync-read-sample:

.. include:: /includes/usage-examples/sample-app-intro.rst

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/sample-app.kt
    :language: kotlin
    :copyable:
    :linenos:
    :emphasize-lines: 19-21

.. .. tip::

..   For instructions about how to install the {+driver-short+}, see :ref:`<kotlin-sync-quick-start>`.

Find Documents
--------------

> The following example fetches a list of documents that match the criteria specified by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example retrieves a list of documents that match the criteria specified by the
```

   :start-after: start-count-query
   :end-before: end-count-query
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:

.. TODO: To learn more about the ``countDocuments()`` method, see the
.. :ref:`kotlin-sync-accurate-count` guide.

Estimated Document Count
------------------------

The following example returns an approximate number of documents in the specified
collection based on collection metadata:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/retrieve-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-estimated-count
   :end-before: end-estimated-count
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:

.. TODO: To learn more about the ``estimatedDocumentCount()`` method, see the
.. :ref:`kotlin-sync-estimated-count` guide.

Retrieve Distinct Values
------------------------

The following example returns all distinct values of the specified field name in a given
collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/retrieve-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-distinct
   :end-before: end-distinct
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:

.. TODO: To learn more about the ``distinct()`` method, see the
.. :ref:`kotlin-sync-distinct` guide.

Monitor Data Changes
--------------------

> The following example creates a change stream for a given collection and prints out
> every subsequent change event in that collection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a change stream for a given collection and prints out
subsequent change events for that collection:
```
